# Minutes of SP 1st Journal Club - 12th Nov (630pm-8pm) \@StudIP

Attendees: Bhaskar, Felix, Franca, Hunaid, Johannes, Krupal, Natalia, Sarah, Shantanu, Rachael (Yeji could not make it as she is 8h ahead of us)  
Format: online (StudIP)

Discussion on 2 papers 'Learning Deep Models from Synthetic Data for Extracting Dolphin Whistle Contours by Li et al. (2020)' & 'ORCA-SPOT: An Automatic Killer Whale Sound Detection Toolkit Using Deep Learning by Bergler et al. (2019)'

**_1. Questions about 1st paper:_**

- why applying edge detection first before feedding into NNs? Are NN layers not able to pick up patterns by itself?
- could the model be overfitting?
- are the patches fed onto Conv 1 one at a time or at the same time?
- what does the confidence map actually mean? How is it used to reassemble the patches?
- figure 4: how are patches assembled into grid and how is it used in training NNs? (each small square is used or the whole grid?)
- does the ResNet actually denoise the detected whistle as by-product?
- training data: no class imbalance (50-50: positive & negative) vs. normal noise-call imbalance. Could 50-50 actually leads to over-prediction of noises because the networks see a lot of noise structures?

**_Comment(s):_**  
using Pretrained models on ImageNet has been proved to improve detection in various studies

**_Take away for Chimp dataset:_**  
- patches of signals of interest
- ResNet is widely used in lots of transfer learning applications and seems to be THE architecture among the published detection studies

**_2. Questions about 2nd paper:_**  
- why ResNet? Empirically (i.e. try different architectures and pick what works) or there is other rationales behind

**_Take away for Chimp dataset:_**  
1. Recordings without noticeable animal sounds lead to extreme values regarding the mean/stdv-normalization. dB-normalization between 0 and 1 is used to to cope with very weak signals.
2. Send an input to a trained detector, convert the activations in the hidden layers back to sounds and have the expert listen to them to see if there are certain subtlety of the sounds play a crucial role in determining the signal type --> could be used to inform the rationalized AI WP
