# Minutes of SP Kickoff Meeting - 5th Nov (630pm-8pm) \@StudIP:

Attendees: Bhaskar, Esther, Felix, Franca, Hunaid, Jannik, Johannes, Krupal, Natalia, Sarah, Shantanu, Rachael (Yeji could not make it as she is 8h ahead of us)  
Format: online (StudIP)

1. IDC ECTS: 6 or 8? --> _Jannik_ and other IDC students would look into the examination regulation to confirm on this and follow up with the communication.
2. update on evaluation/grading: according to examination regulations, grades will be given for individuals, instead of one grade for all.
3. question from _Shantanu_: evaluation/grading of SP will be given for 6 months/each semester? Or in the end for the final work?
4. question: on how often we could meet Ulf/Axel for consultation/guidance --> Rachael: reach out anytime needed, apart from the regular progress update.
5. _Hunaid_ made a call on integrating linguistic and math to develop more computation efficient and explainable AI methods to detect or classify/cluster animal sounds. e.g, using ideas such as autoencoders and meta learning to make models smaller and different from the existing models like bat detection. --> call to contribute ideas, to start discussions on those methods on slack and to collaborate.
6. _Johannes_ found there could be Echo State Network could be used for detection --> since the group is not familiiar with Echo State Network, Johannes would share 1 or 2 papers as intro reading with the group and present a couple of slides to show why/how Echo State would be promising for the detection task.
7. _Natalia's_ master thesis was about compositionality \& introduce us to this topic \& other relevant linguistic topics.
8. _Shantanu_ proposed to concentrate the literature review on the 'finalized' work packages to be mindful with time and be productive with our research questions. --> different WPs and umbrella research questions shall be finalized iteratively as we read through the relevant papers.
9. _Krupal:_ as we read through papers, use a lookup/centralized table to keep track of which papers use which classification methods, regularization methods, noise augmentation, challenges, limitations, which could be useful when finalizing the WPs and methods (without diving into the papers again)
10. The group would like to use detection papers as a starting point and read two papers to compare different methods for next week.
11. If there are conferences where you would like to participate in 2021, feel free to mark the deadlines on google doc - 'timeline_draft' so that we could keep it at the back of our mind as we work on the SP.

**_TO-DO:_**  
1. propose DL/ML based detection papers on slack before tomorrow 16:00 (6th Nov) - in addition to those on StudIP
2. vote for 2 papers at 18:00 Fri (6th Nov)
3. read the two papers before the next group meeting (12th Nov, 6:30pm-8pm)
4. For the meeting in 2 weeks (19th Nov), Hunaid (together with others interested) could share some intro papers with the group in advance and lead a discussion to explore & be concrete on rationalized AI WP??

**_Stay tuned:_**  
_Natalia:_ share with the group an overview of approaches to compositionality in linguistics (19th Nov meeting)

**_PICs (person-in-charge):_**  
For the lookup/centralized table to keep track of which papers use which classification methods, regularization methods, noise augmentation, challenges, limitations, as we read more and more papers, Krupal offers to take a lead on this. 🙌👍 Feel free to join him/reach out to him to contribute ideas!  
In case I missed anything, please do add below this post! 🙂 Many thanks in advance!
